readme.md, before:

# BET Platform

This repository contains the code and documentation for the aerial and ground platforms of the BET project.

# Hardware

The aerial platform uses an Arduino UNO R3 to as the MCU and core of the platform. Through a custom soldered shield, it interfaces with the motors, comms. board, and sensor platform. Two 9g servo motors are used to actuate and stabilize the sensor platform. Communication with the ground station is accomplished with a pair of nRF24L01+ 2.4GHz trancievers. The sensor platform is fitted with 3 sensors and board and PIC microcontroller to interface all of them with the Arduino. These are: the AMG8833, a thermal sensor array; the LSM6DS3TR-C, a accelerometer & gyroscope; and the HC-SR04, an ultrasonic distance sensor.

To learn more, see [Aerial Hardware](aerial_hardware.md) or [Ground Hardware](ground_hardware.md).

# Usage

Compile this code for the desired target (Arduino Uno) and upload it to the device. Use of Arduino IDE is recommended for this. Ensure peripheral devices are connected matching the configuration noted in the program. Operate the accopanying ground station to utilize the device.

# Additional Documentation

[Wireless Commmunication Protocol](wireless.md)

Documentation for the specific hardware used in this project is provided freely by the manufacturer online.

* [Arduino Uno R3](https://docs.arduino.cc/static/9c741aca36170f5f51ff4753af3821b6/A000066-datasheet.pdf)
* [HC-SR04](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EVeVC9sq9LfeJpi6mkSZEUftg7otLQPN/view)
* [AMG8833](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-amg8833-8x8-thermal-camera-sensor)
* [LSM6DS3TR-C](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-lsm6ds3tr-c-6-dof-accel-gyro-imu)
* [PIC12F675](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU08/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/41190G.pdf)
* [nRF24L01+](https://nrf24.github.io/RF24/)

Commit message:

Ground platform hardware documentation improved

readme.md, after:

# BET Platform

This repository contains the code and documentation for the aerial and ground platforms of the BET project.

# Hardware

The aerial platform uses an Arduino UNO R3 to as the MCU and core of the platform. Through a custom soldered shield, it interfaces with the motors, comms. board, and sensor platform. Two 9g servo motors are used to actuate and stabilize the sensor platform. Communication with the ground station is accomplished with a pair of nRF24L01+ 2.4GHz trancievers. The sensor platform is fitted with 3 sensors and board and PIC microcontroller to interface all of them with the Arduino. These are: the AMG8833, a thermal sensor array; the LSM6DS3TR-C, a accelerometer & gyroscope; and the HC-SR04, an ultrasonic distance sensor.

The ground platform uses the NodeMCU ESP12-E board based on the Espressif ESP8266. This interfaces with an nRF42L01+ wireless tranciever to communicate with the aerial platform.

To learn more, see [Aerial Hardware](aerial_hardware.md) or [Ground Hardware](ground_hardware.md).

# Usage

Compile this code for the desired target (Arduino Uno or ESP8266) and upload it to the device. Use of Arduino IDE is recommended for this. Ensure peripheral devices are connected matching the configuration noted in the program. Operate the accopanying ground station to utilize the device.

The project uses the Arduino Core for the ESP8266. Instructions on how to install and configure this are found [here](https://github.com/esp8266/Arduino).

# Additional Documentation

[Wireless Commmunication Protocol](wireless.md)

Documentation for the specific hardware used in this project is provided freely by the manufacturer online.

* [Arduino Uno R3](https://docs.arduino.cc/static/9c741aca36170f5f51ff4753af3821b6/A000066-datasheet.pdf)
* [HC-SR04](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1EVeVC9sq9LfeJpi6mkSZEUftg7otLQPN/view)
* [AMG8833](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-amg8833-8x8-thermal-camera-sensor)
* [LSM6DS3TR-C](https://learn.adafruit.com/adafruit-lsm6ds3tr-c-6-dof-accel-gyro-imu)
* [PIC12F675](https://ww1.microchip.com/downloads/aemDocuments/documents/MCU08/ProductDocuments/DataSheets/41190G.pdf)
* [nRF24L01+](https://nrf24.github.io/RF24/)
